To create a rim or seal around this cockpit I think what I'll do is use a circle and then try the proportional
editing tool to get it to mold to the shape of the body.
So let's try that.
I'm going to first select the cockpit and move the pivot point or the 3D cursor to that point.
And then I'll create a circle over here on the Create tab and
I'm going to go ahead and leave it at 32 sides here because we may need that amount of resolution to
get it to bend in the way that we want.
So let's try to at least go to the rotate tool and the side view and orthographic view with the five
key I'm going to hit the period key on the numpad to zoom in and Z for wireframe.
Now I want to just hit the Archey and rotate this until I get it about angled the way the cockpit is
just approximately like that.
Now I'm going to go to the front view and take a look at it here.
I could scale it a bit.
Let me do that.
So now that I have the circle in place and roughly the right size I'm going to tab into Edit Mode go
to vertex mode de-select them and if I took Say this point up here and began moving it back I'd have
I'd be spending a lot of time moving all these back to fit the shape of the body.
If I were doing it one by one here.
So what I want to do is use this proportional editing tool down here and I can pull out this menu and
I can choose enabled the shortcut key for this is the key on the keyboard so you can toggle proportional
editing tool on and off with the key.
And now if I I'm going to move up here if I hit the G key you can see that there's this circle around
the point.
And if I scroll the scroll wheel on the mouse it will increase and decrease the size.
Now what this is is the circle of influence so in the center of the circle is the most influence for
the move tool that I have selected here.
Moving out toward the edge of the influence of this circle decreases so you can see if I move this it's
moving it proportionally it's moving it at the point that's selected the most.
And then as it moves out to the edge of the circle it's less and less influence.
So with this I can begin to move these points back toward the body of the neck.
Now I feel like I need to change the influence of this year so I'm going to hit the G key again and
scroll the mouse wheel to make it a little bit bigger.
And then click and now I can use my move manipulator to move this point with the proportional editing
tool here so I can move it like that and go and I'll come down here and do the same for this point down
here.
And move it kind of like this.
So I'm just kind of trying to get this so it lines up with the shape of the mech.
Now I want to move my cursor back to the center it's kind of in the way here.
I'm also going to use my border select to drag select some points here.
Now the reason why I used the border select is to select both of these you can see there's two here
I can de-select this one down here.
Now go back to the side view I can move it in just a little bit.
Hit the big key and drag a pare down here.
And I'm trying to do is get the circle to line up with the basic shape of the body here that's all.
So now what I'll do is just with it selected in Edge mode and you go to Edit Mode edge select all hit
the key and click and then go back to the move tool and I'm just going to pull this back.
Notice that I pulled back with the proportional editing tool.
That's not going to help me.
I need to disable the proportional editing tool to do that I can just hit the okey.
So now if I pull down that should extrude out the circle and then if I select this edge again I'm going
to hit the for extrude Aamna click.
I'll press the s key and scale in some
and then once again I'll hit the click and pull in.
And one last time I'll hit the click and the ESC key and scale in.
So now you may notice that this object is a little bit different color than all the rest.
It's more of a bluish here I guess.
But the reason why that is I believe is that the normals are facing the wrong way.
And what I mean by that is that the polygons are flipped polygons have a front and a back and there
is a line an imaginary line coming out of the front of every polygon that people call the normal.
And it just dictates which is the front of a polygon and which is the back.
Now to flip this what we need to do is tab into edit mode and I'm don't like all the faces then I'm
going to go to control f and that's the faces menu and you can see up here at the top is flip normal's.
And if we click that that will flip the polygon so that they are facing out so that the front of the
polygons are facing toward us.
And now you can see that the color of the object is a little bit more similar to the rest and that's
just Blender's way of letting you know that a polygon is flipped and needs to be reversed so now that
we have that I'm going to go in and change the name here or call this cockpit trim and.
Let's go ahead and add a subdivision surface modifier and I will go ahead and add the views about 2
and I can also under the Tools tab smooth the shading.
So I think what I will do is maybe insert just one edge loop along here and see how that looks.
And also I believe what I could do is take this edge that I pulled back into here and scale this up
so it flares out a bit and we go.
So that just helps clean off and finish the cockpit there just to give it some trim around there.
So I think that helps.
Another thing I'd like to do with the body here is to go ahead and delete half and measure it over again
because the information on the shoulder over here the modeling information hasn't yet been duplicated
over or mirrored over to the other side.
So I think I just need to mirror that over so select the body press the division key on the keyboard
here to isolate it.
And I'm going to turn off the subdivision surface modifier for the time being and tab into edit mode.
Go to face's wireframe front view and perspective.
And I do all that just so I can see the polygons a little easier because what I want to do is go to
the border select tool with the Beaky and click and drag and delete half.
So I'll just take this and delete it.
Delete faces.
And now if I tab back into object mode let's see where the pivot point is.
That's good.
It's still down here at the center of the grid I'll now go ahead and add another modifier the mirror
modifier.
Turn on clipping and I'll go ahead and hit apply so that now should have sealed up the main body and
if I go back here into perspective mode you can see that that information on the shoulder has been mirrored
over.
All right.
So I'll hit the division key on the numpad again.
Let's make sure it's all sealed up here.
Yeah looks good.
All right.
So we're coming along.
I think I may add a couple of little details on the body and the jet pack.
But then after that we'll just need to mirror the leg and the arm over and I think we'll be done.